---
layout: post
title: WakeOnLan
gh-repo: weiguangcui/weiguangcui.github.io
gh-badge: [star, fork, follow]
tags: [NAS, server]
comments: false
comments_id: 5
---

# The problem
My server can be interrupted by a blackout or even a single power switch, which is not very often, but quite annoying. It is not easy from me go to the machine and press the button.

# Solutions
- UPS 
  
    Highly recommended if you have $$$, see [here (Amazon)](https://www.amazon.co.uk/s?k=UPS&crid=2OFZKL6L69LR3&sprefix=ups%2Caps%2C515&linkCode=ll2&tag=weiguangwebsi-21&linkId=eaa3cb2e89b7dcf23a092ab191c1fd4e&language=en_GB&ref_=as_li_ss_tl) for some suggestions.

- Turn on with AC power in BIOS

  This depends on the motherboard in your computer, some may not support that. If so, please read option 3.
  
- ==WakeOnLan== *in Linux*

  This is what we are going to do here. More references can be found at [here](https://wiki.debian.org/WakeOnLan)
  
  1. *Hardware support* 
  
    Also need to make sure your network card and motherboard support some type of Wake On LAN (WOL) feature. How? Reboot your computer and go to the UEFI/BIOS, find an option labelled "Wake On LAN", or something like that under either boot, power management or network. If you do not have that option, there may be another power management or network option that enables WOL. Even you can not find anything, it is still possible that your network card supports that. Let's have a look in next step -- software activating part.

  2. *Software activation*
  
    First check if WOL functionality is already activated, using `ethtool` (install it, if command not find) like this: `sudo ethtool eth0`. Note, your network card may not named as `eth0`, use `ifconfig` to check its name. The output of `sudo ethtool eth0` will print out something like `Wake-on: g`. `g` means it is enabled. If not, let's activate it in different ways: ifupdown, ethtool, systemd networkd or NetworkManager.
  
    * ifupdown
    
      Add an interface config file /etc/network/interfaces.d/eth0 (or modify the global interface config file /etc/network/interfaces):
      ```
      auto eth0
          iface eth0 inet dhcp
          ethernet-wol g
      ```
      Then, reboot the system to activate it.
    
    * ethtool (recommended)
    
      Just one simple line: `sudo ethtool -s eth0 wol g`. Again, Replace eth0 with your network interface device name.
    
    * systemd-networkd
    
      You can check if your network is managed by systemd-networkd by `networkctl list` command.

      Set the WakeOnLan field to one of the available options in the [[Link] section of the .link file](https://manpages.debian.org/man/systemd.link#A.5BLINK.5D_SECTION_OPTIONS) for the network interfaces you want to use WOL on:
      ```
      [Link]
      WakeOnLan=magic
      ```
      
      Beware that only the first .link file is applied and that there is a 99-default.link. The name needs to be lexicographically smaller. Then, activate it:
      ```
      sudo networkctl reload
      sudo networkctl reconfigure
      ```
    
    * NetworkManager
    
      You can check if your network devices are managed with `nmcli d` command.

      NetworkManager supports WOL since version 1.0.6 and you can enable it from either your desktop network configuration GUI, or the [nm-connection-editor GUI](https://manpages.debian.org/man/nm-connection-editor) from [nm-connection-editor](https://packages.debian.org/nm-connection-editor), or from the [nmcli command-line tool](https://manpages.debian.org/man/nmcli) using this command:

      `sudo nmcli c modify "wired1" 802-3-ethernet.wake-on-lan magic`
    
- Use WOL

  It is very easy, simply do this in another computer's terminal: `sudo etherwake <mac address>` or `wakeonlan <mac address>`. Note the *mac address* is the one of your network card that you want to wake up. I found the second software `wakeonlan` works very well.
  
- Trouble shooting 

  please refere to the debain's wiki page for [WakeOnLan](https://wiki.debian.org/WakeOnLan) or Google it.
